The AI Trust Agent: Closing the Installer Exploit Gap

Problem Traditional trust (code signatures, PKI) verifies **who signed
the installer**, not **what the installer actually does**. Build
pipelines get popped, adware "options" sneak in, and post-install
scripts quietly plant telemetry, updaters, drivers, and scheduled tasks.
No mainstream stack performs **intent validation** of the installer's
script/logic *before* the user clicks "Accept."

Core Idea AI-OS introduces an **AI Trust Agent (AITA)** that intercepts
installers pre-execution, **decompiles / expands their scripts**,
simulates the full install plan in a sandbox, and issues a **Dynamic
Trust Certificate (DTC)**: a signed, human-readable, and
machine-verifiable assessment of intent, privilege use, network
behavior, persistence hooks, and deviation from expected norms for that
software category.

Goals - **Pre-consent clarity**: show users what will happen *before*
anything happens. - **Contextual trust**: "Is this behavior normal for a
video player?" not just "Is this signed?" - **Transactional installs**:
atomic, supervised, and fully reversible. - **Policyable**: orgs can
codify "never allow kernel drivers from note-taking apps," etc.

High-Level Flow

\[User launches installer\] \| v \[AITA Gate\] --extract--\> \[Static
Analyzer\] --models--\> \[Intent Classifier\] \| \--\> \[Capability
Graph\] v \[Sandboxed Dry-Run Simulator\] --trace--\> \[Behavioral Diff
vs. Norms\] \| v \[Dynamic Trust Certificate + Plain-Language Summary\]
\| (Allow / Deny / Require Sandbox / Ask Vendor for Minimal Plan) \| v
\[Transactional Supervised Install\] --live policy enforcement--\>
\[Signed Audit Log\]

Dynamic Trust Certificate (DTC) - **Identity**: hashes, signers,
timestamp, supply-chain attestations (SLSA/C2PA/SBOM if present). -
**Intent Summary** (plain language): files, services, drivers, scheduled
tasks, startup entries, registry/launchd/systemd changes, network
endpoints contacted, telemetry channels. - **Privilege Map**: requested
elevation, kernel hooks, device access, protected paths. - **Risk
Score + Rationale**: outliers vs. category norms, suspicious calls,
opaque downloads. - **Policy Verdict**: allow / deny / sandbox-only /
require vendor-minimal plan. - **Repro Plan Hash**: reproducible
"minimal install" patch if AI prunes unnecessary steps.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Engineering Deep Dive: Hooking & Supervising Installers

0)  Threat Model Cliff Notes

-   **Supply-chain compromised but signed**: malicious script logic
    passes PKI.
-   **Over-privileged installers**: bury persistence, drivers,
    telemetry.
-   **Time-of-check/time-of-use**: installer fetches payloads after
    consent.
-   **Evasion**: anti-VM, environment checks, encrypted scripts, JIT
    downloaders.

We assume attackers know we're analyzing; we design to **contain +
explain**, not just detect.

1)  Interception ("AITA Gate") ...
